Ever lost work or struggled
to collaborate on a project,
enter Git, the
lifesaver of coding.
This powerful version
control system
keeps track of every change,
making teamwork smooth
and mistakes fixable.
In this video, we will describe
the basics of Git commands,
and their uses in
front end development.
Let's start by reviewing the
benefits of version control.
Version control is
essential because it
tracks all changes
made to the code,
allows developers
to collaborate,
enables easy reversion
to previous versions,
and lets developers work
a new features or fixes,
without affecting
the main code base.
Though there are other
version control systems,
Git is the one that's
most widely used.
Git is a distributed
version control system
that helps developers
track changes,
collaborate, and maintain
the history of their code.
Think of Git as one of
the essential tools
every developer needs,
like brushes and
palettes to a painter,
which helps them create and
manage different
versions of their work.
In contrast, GitHub is like
an art gallery where
artists store their pieces,
showcase their work, and
collaborate with other artists.
How does get enable developers
to maintain the
history of their code,
track changes, and collaborate?
Git involves the use of
repositories and branching.
Let's examine how Git uses
both of these strategies.
In Git, a repository is
a storage space where
all files related to
a project are kept,
including their complete
change history.
These repositories hold
snapshots of all code versions,
allowing developers
to track changes,
maintain a history, and roll
back to a previous
version, if necessary.
Next, let's explore branching.
If you think of the main
code as the main branch,
developers create other
branches when they need to add
new code or make changes
to the existing code.
Think of branching like
making a copy of a folder.
When a new branch is created,
it's like making a copy.
Developers can add to, modify,
and test these
documents in this copy,
without impacting the original.
Once they're sure their edits
are correct and stable,
they can merge the changes
into the folder back
into the main branch,
updating it with all
the new modifications.
Developers use
repositories and branching
to manage their code with
the help of Git in GitHub.
But how do developers
interact with these tools?
They execute commands.
Developers execute
commands typically through
an application like GitHub
or Visual Studio Code.
Some of the basic commands
developers use include clone,
branch, commit, push, and pull.
Let's explore each
of these commands
in detail, starting with clone.
The clone command
creates a local copy
of the repository a
developer is working on.
This allows them
to start working
with the code base on
their own machine.
To use the clone command,
you would type git, space, clone, space, then
the URL of the repository.
For instance, if you're
developing a new feature for
the shopping cart user interface
on an e-commerce website,
you would first clone
the existing project.
Next, you need to create
a branch using the
branch command.
The branch command allows
developers to create
a new branch to work on a
specific feature or fix.
Working on branches keeps
the main code base stable.
To use the branch command,
you would type git, space, branch, space, then
the name of the branch.
For your shopping cart
user interface feature,
you might create
a branch by using
the command git branch
feature-shopping-cart-ui.
With a copy of the repository on
your local machine
and a branch created,
you're now ready to get started
on the development work.
Once you write some code or make
some code changes to
the existing code,
you will commit your code.
The commit command captures
a snapshot of the
project's changes.
This allows you to
track your progress and
revert to a previous
version if needed.
To use the commit command,
you would type git, space, commit, space, -m,
then a commit message in quotes.
Notice that the commit command
includes the commit message.
This is where a developer
writes a meaningful message to
describe what changes were
made to the code base.
For example, after creating
the basic layout for
the shopping cart,
you might commit
with the message,
initialized shopping
cart layout.
When you're done with
all of your changes,
you use the push command.
The push command updates
the remote repository
with local changes,
allowing others to
review and use updates.
To use the push command,
you would type git, space, push, space,
then the name of the
remote repository,
and finally, the branch name.
Once you're satisfied
with the development
and testing of your new
shopping cart feature,
the next step is to share
your work by pushing
it to GitHub.
You execute the command git
push origin
feature-shopping-cart-ui,
which uploads all commands
from your local branch
named feature-shopping-cart-ui
to GitHub.
Now you're ready to
start working on
the next feature so you could
execute a pull command.
The pull command updates
your local code base
with the latest changes
from the remote repository,
ensuring you have the
most current version.
To use the pull command,
you would type git, space, pull, space,
then the name of the
remote repository,
and finally, the branch name.
You use the pull command
git pull origin main,
to pull down the latest version
of the code in the repository.
After pulling the
latest updates,
you can go back and use
the branch command.
This will create
a new branch from
the updated main branch,
so you can start working
on your next feature.
This workflow maintains
the integrity
and continuity of the project,
allowing all developers to
work collaboratively
and efficiently.
In this video, you learn some of
the basic Git commands and
their uses in the
development process.
By mastering basic Git
commands such as clone,
branch, commit, push, and pull,
developers can effectively
manage their code,
collaborate with their team,
and maintain a comprehensive
history of their projects.
This leads to a more organized
and efficient
development process.